# notes 01-13-2022

## Attendees
- Melissa Cragin (SDSC)
- Christine Kirkpatrick (SDSC)
- Rob Quick (IU, connecting researchers to cyberinfrastructure)
- Amy Roberts (CU Denver)
- Haythem Mansour (CU Denver, MechE who will be looking for a job soon and would love to get invovled in robotics)
- We're all pumped about data access and reproducibility!

# Project Discription
 - Would like to use standard software libraries.
 - Currently in custom binary format that needs custom software to read. 
 - Instrumentation and data aquisition systems lead to these custom formats. 
 - No translation software provided by vendors or experiements. 
 - PONDD: User queries, downsized (usually) the data, and transforms into a standard format. 
 - (1) data registry, (2) format registry, (3) protocol that provides CRUD-type operations (IRIS-HEP?  Other efforts to make an "analysis language"?)
 - PID to discrete peices of data would be useful (for example, to know what data went into and out of a histogram)

# Questions
 - is OSN providing larger containers?  Amy: what I did not know OSN provided containers
 - Rob: Can FAIR DOs provide the same functionality for the data? 
 - Rob: Is Data Identifier (DID) a persistent ID? (Globaly unique, persistent, available external to the servce itself)
 - Are the DIDs we're working with globally unique, externally available, persistent (decades), are they useful outside of that system (can you get metadata just from the DID)?
     - No/somewhat
     - No guarantee these will be available beyond a decade (see DONA)
     - Not useful outside the system
     - Not globally unique (also see DONA)
     - Externally available, just difficult to find
     - Note that the data itself does not have to be public.  
 - Rob: Data Typed?
     - Yes, but there needs to be another DID for the Type
 - DONA Foundation - https://www.dona.net/index 
 - Share data format information? Peershare.org? https://fairsharing.org/FAIRsharing.xfrgsf?
     - Could also be useful to standardize is "here's the metadata that should be attached to a dark matter data set"
         - This is called a metadata profile in FAIR DO parlance. 
     - Also can be useful to do a "metadata crosswalk" to match metadata from one site to another (e.g. CDMS to XENON) so people don't have to do it themselves over and over again!

# Next Steps
 - Review FAIR NSF solicitation? https://www.nsf.gov/pubs/2022/nsf22553/nsf22553.htm?WT.mc_id=USNSF_27&WT.mc_ev=click
 - Talk with developers to provide PIDs to data?
 - What OSN could provide? Go to an office hour and find out if OSN metadata might be a PID or PID-able
 - Review NSF data solicitation, maybe something that could help Rucio add PIDs?