Meeting Minutes
===

###### tags: `PONDD` `Meeting`

:::info
- **Location:** https://ucdenver.zoom.us/j/94702468227
- **Date:** March 10, 2023, 11 AM Mountain
- **Participants:**
    - Amy Roberts (AR)
    - 
- **Meeting Goal(s)**

:::
Sophia Ciceneros analysis
Small dataset: Kilobytes
https://github.com/Cisneros-Galaxy/RCFM
    How quickly galaxy's rotate - major evidence of Dark Matter
    Expected vs actual - Sophia's analysis looking at galatic roation curves
    Parameter fit with ordinary gravity. 
    
    Rotmod - file rotation curves for a galaxy --
    Do global fit
    
    Allow users to do their own global fit
    
    

## Summary
<!-- Please fill me in after the meeting -->
- Questions for Sofia
    - Where did these data files come from?  Is there a place we can grab them from?
    - Is there any data processing that happens to the data files before fitting?
    - How long does the fitting take?  Are there any places where a speed-up would help?
    - Is any part of the operation suitable for paralellization?
    - Is there information about the galaxy data that would be useful to sort on?  Name of the galaxy, instrument that took the data, anything that you would need for the calculation?
    - Is this a science gateway?
    - Can ServiceX find the data and use Kaitai to turn it into a parquet file
        - Put CSV into Girder
        - Kaitai transformer - accepts a Kaitai spec and returns an Awkward array - write this to Parquet
        - Kaitai comes back as a dict


### Project Tasks:
1. Transfer the CSV to Girder
2. Use the Girder DID finder to find the files
3. Kaitai Code generator accepts the spec for these CSV files and generates python
4. Kaiti transformer mounts the generated code. Use it to read a file. Beat it to shape to become a parquet file
5. Modify the fit to use the parquet file


Next step: Add another galaxy from somewhere far far away


## Notes 
<!-- Other important details discussed during the meeting can be entered here. -->
