Meeting Minutes
===

###### tags: `Meeting`

:::info
- **Date:** June 9, 2021 12:00 PM (Mountain)
- **Participants:**
    - Amy Roberts
    - Andrea Zonca
    - Ben Galewski

:::

## Notes
- Andrea will put Amy in touch with Sonia, who can help sort out financial details for hiring
- Andrea's time is flexible.  It is likely possible to have him work at 20% initially and then drop to 10%
- The plan is to have Andrea work on experiment-specific stuff that would not be supported through e.g. ECSS.  So a clear first project: building a service that plugs the CDMS data catalog into the ServiceX DID finder.
- Our computing resource plan involves starting with the UChicago cluster and then putting in an XSEDE allocation.
- Ben: may want to secure a domain name
- Ben: if we're settled on the PONDD name, could ask my daughter to draw up some logos.  Amy: can ask my grants person to see if we have money in our budget for that.
- Open question: when/if will we stand up a Rucio server?  Amy: we may need to stand this up fairly early.  CMDS has a data catalog with a public API so we will not need Rucio for that.  But we want experiments that do not have a public data catalog to be able to participate and we'll need to provide a data catalog service for them to start populating.

## Decisions
- Documentation will stay with the code in the code repository.  We'll document with markdown and (maybe) a document-builder like mkdocs or Antora.  In other words, we won't use the GitHub wiki feature.
- We'll use the GitHub projects boards to coordinate and track work.


