Welcome to the first PONDD planning meeting!

## Time
April 27, 2:30 PM till 3:30 PM Mountain

## Zoom coordinates
https://ucdenver.zoom.us/j/97187820489?from=addon
Meeting ID: 971 8782 0489
One tap mobile
+12532158782,,97187820489# US (Tacoma)
+13462487799,,97187820489# US (Houston)

## Miro Board
[PONDD, Online Whiteboard for Visual Collaboration (miro.com)](https://miro.com/app/board/o9J_klJTaE4=/?moveToWidget=3074457357862210617&cot=14)

## Summary
- Decision: we’ll use our current IRIS-HEP channel for PONDD communications.  
- Decision: we’ll take meeting notes on hackmd.io and sync them after to [pondd-project/pondd-meetings: pondd project meeting notes (github.com)](https://github.com/pondd-project/pondd-meetings).
- Decision: we’ll advertise meetings through an iCal feed via Google Calendar.  Amy’s not sure how to do this but will learn!

## Goals
- Please feel free to add your meeting goals here!
- Amy: leave the meeting knowing where and how we’ll coordinate our work.  I’m not expecting us to map out the entire summer and fall semester, but I do want to know how we’ll coordinate to get things planned.
- (Ben) I’d like agreement on what we are building and some overall architecture refinement

## Agenda
- Congratulations everyone, excellent work!
- Please feel free to add agenda items and/or comment on existing items!
- Do we make our own Slack/Zulip/etc space, or use IRIS-HEP?
  - It’s okay to make channels in IRIS-HEP space
  - Kaitai uses Gitter.  Ben: I’ve found Gitter to be a bit fiddly compared to Slack.
  - Decision: Let’s use our Slack channel in IRIS-HEP
  - Can set up a pondd-users channel when we start doing outreach.
  - To decide: what do we rename our channel to?
  - LSST (Vera Rubin Obs) has a channel naming guide that I think underscores Gordon's point about naming by committee: 
  - https://community.lsst.org/t/migrating-hipchat-rooms-to-slack-channels/1151
- How do we manage/keep track of/advertise meetings?  Indico?  Indico through IRIS-HEP?  Google Drive?  Other?
  - CERN gives Indico space to anything that is related to CERN.  Gordon: we can argue a connection to CERN in this case.
  - Indico is great for keeping an archive, if people are planning on uploading slides
  - Google: shared drive space?
  - Matt: consider keeping any public meeting notes in a repository in the `pondd-project` org.  We do this with yt team meetings and it works well.  Keep meeting notes in a hackmd.io and then export directly to GitHub.
  - Also create a PONDD org on github (gordon)
  - [Meeting Notes — Whole Tale 1.0.0.0 documentation](https://wholetale.readthedocs.io/en/latest/development/meetings/index.html)
  - Jupyter does a team-compass repository, and that's how they advertise community meetings.
  - Gordon: Advertise meetings through an iCal feed via Google Calendar?  HSF does this and it works well.
  - Decision: meeting notes like yt, advertise meetings like HSF.  Zoom for meetings.
- Mailing list?  Ben is looking into this for ServiceX.  Amy: maybe we can just copy what you set up for ServiceX?  Ben: a mailing list gets you to people who aren’t on Slack.
- @Ben Galewsky, any project management books or papers Amy should read?
  - Doug Rose taught me agile development. If you have access to linkedIn learning (formally Lynda), this is a terrific intro https://www.linkedin.com/learning/agile-at-work-planning-with-agile-user-stories/planning-with-user-stories?u=43607124
  - Multiply admin times by 2 
- Question to the group: Andrea Zonca is available at 20% time for a year starting in September and is interested in working on this project.  Amy has funding for a postdoc for three years.  
  - Does anyone have thoughts on how dangerous/not dangerous it is to have a 2.5 year postdoc instead of a 3 year postdoc?
  - Because my sense is that it would be incredibly valuable to have Andrea help with some of the CDMS integration pieces, our software is really difficult for anyone, let alone someone new, to work with.  (Consensus: we would all love to work with Andrea on this)
  - Predicting a post-doc can stay 3 years vs 2.5 before the three years have lapsed is already hard… If you have someone good for 2.5 years, and they can start right away, I would say nab them… it will take 2-4 months to hire someone anyay… (Gordon: I misinterpreted this comment of yours, Amy, sorry)
  - Matt’s institution forces you to advertise for postdoc positions as “1 year with possibility for extension)
- Is anyone interested in participating in the SGCI focus week and working on a sustainability plan with Amy?  They say it’s more effective when multiple people from a team participate.  Details at [Focus Week - Science Gateways Community Institute (SGCI)](https://sciencegateways.org/engage/focus-week), applications are due June 9, focus week is online during June 14-24.
  - We are kind of meh on this.  Maybe next year, when we're not all so exhausted?
- Scope definition: what are we building?  What is our first deliverable?
  - See Miro board, "Project Charter"
- Decisions discussion: what is clearly defined about how we will implement our first deliverable?  What is still up in the air?
